.TH SERVEEZ "1" "September 2002" "Serveez" FSF
.SH NAME
Serveez \- A server framework.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBserveez\fR [OPTION]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBServeez\fR is a server framework.  It provides routines and help for
implementing IP based servers (currently TCP, UDP and ICMP).  It is also
possible to use named pipes for all connection oriented protocols.

We think it is worth the effort because many people need server functionality
within their applications.  However, many people experience problems
with select()- or poll()-loops, and with non-blocking operations.

This application demonstrates various aspects of advanced network
programming in a portable manner.  It is known to compile and run on
GNU/Linux systems, as well as on other 32-bit and 64-bit flavours of Unix
and on Microsoft Windows (9x/ME/NT/2000/XP).

You can use it for implementing your own servers or for understanding how
certain network services and operations work.

The package includes a number of servers that work already: an HTTP server,
an IRC server, a Gnutella spider and some others.  One of the highlights is
that you can run all protocols on the same port.  The application itself is
single threaded but it uses helper processes for concurrent name resolution
and ident lookups.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
display this help and exit
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
display version information and exit
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-iflist\fR
list local network interfaces and exit
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-cfg\-file\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
file to use as configuration file (serveez.cfg)
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR=\fILEVEL\fR
set level of verbosity
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-log\-file\fR=\fIFILENAME\fR
use FILENAME for logging (default is stderr)
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-password\fR=\fISTRING\fR
set the password for control connections
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-max\-sockets\fR=\fICOUNT\fR
set the max. number of socket descriptors
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-daemon\fR
start as daemon in background
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-stdin\fR
use standard input as configuration file
.SH AVAILABILITY
The latest version of Serveez can always be obtained from
\fBwww.sourceforge.net\fR, \fBwww.freshmeat.net\fR or \fBftp.gnu.org\fR
.SH BUGS
.PP
Known bugs are documented within the BUGS file. Please send Serveez bug
reports to <bug-serveez@gnu.org>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B Serveez
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B serveez
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info serveez
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Martin Grabmueller <mgrabmue@cs.tu-berlin.de>,
Raimund Jacob <raimi@lkcc.org> and Stefan Jahn <stefan@lkcc.org>.
